What is Computer Networking?
Computer networking refers to connected computing devices (such as laptops, desktops, servers, smartphones, and tablets) and an ever-expanding array of IoT devices 
(such as cameras, door locks, doorbells, refrigerators, audio/visual systems, thermostats, and various sensors) that communicate with one another.
Computer Network means an interconnection of autonomous (standalone) computers for information exchange.

BASIC TERMS:
Client: A client is a computer hardware device or software that accesses a service made available by a server. The server is often (but not always) located on a 
separate physical computer.

Server: A server is a physical computer dedicated to run services to serve the needs of other computers. Depending on the servicethat is running, it could be a file 
server, database server, home media server, print server, or web server.

Host: A host is a computer, connected to other computers for which it provides data or services over a network. In theory, every computer connected to a network acts 
as a host to other peers on the network. In essence, a host reflects the logical relationship of two or more computers on a network.
A host must have an assigned IP address.

What is difference between the Internet and the Web?
The Internet is a global network of networks while the Web, also referred to formally as World Wide Web (www) is a collection of information that is accessed via the Internet. 
Another way to look at this difference is; the Internet is infrastructure while the Web is served on top of that infrastructure. Alternatively, the Internet can be viewed as a 
big book store while the Web can be viewed as a collection of books on that store. At a high level, we can even think of the Internet as hardware and the Web as software!

Web applications use HTTP protocol which is a layer over TCP protocol. Whereas internet applications can use either TCP or UDP protocol.
To visualize the difference think of it as the internet is a network of many computers connected together so you can use any port say 90 to send or receive data whereas in web 
port is fixed as HTTP uses port 80 to communicate and also the data which is sent is HTML, CSS, and JavaScript. So if you want a feel of internet application make a socket 
connection at a random port and send data to another computer via the socket. So in this case you are using the internet for communication and not the web.

