What is OSI Model?
OSI stands for Open Systems Interconnection. It was developed by ISO – ‘International Organization for Standardization’, in the year 1984. It is a 7-layer architecture
with each layer having specific functionality to perform. All these 7 layers work collaboratively to transmit the data from one person to another across the globe.


Physical Layer – Layer 1
  The lowest layer of the OSI reference model is the physical layer. It is responsible for the actual physical connection between the devices. 
  The physical layer contains information in the form of bits. It is responsible for transmitting individual bits from one node to the next. 
  When receiving data, this layer will get the signal received and convert it into 0s and 1s and send them to the Data Link layer, 
  which will put the frame back together.
  At the physical layer, one might find “physical” resources such as network hubs, cabling, repeaters, network adapters or modems.

Functions of the Physical Layer:
Bit synchronization: The physical layer provides the synchronization of the bits by providing a clock. This clock controls both sender and receiver thus
providing synchronization at the bit level.
Bit rate control: The Physical layer also defines the transmission rate i.e. the number of bits sent per second.
Physical topologies: Physical layer specifies how the different, devices/nodes are arranged in a network i.e. bus, star, or mesh topology.
Transmission mode: Physical layer also defines how the data flows between the two connected devices. The various transmission modes possible are Simplex, 
half-duplex and full-duplex.


Data Link Layer (DLL) – Layer 2
The data link layer is responsible for the node-to-node delivery of the message. The main function of this layer is to make sure data transfer is error-free
from one node to another, over the physical layer. When a packet arrives in a network, it is the responsibility of the DLL to transmit it to the Host using its 
MAC address. 
The Data Link Layer is divided into two sublayers:  

Logical Link Control (LLC)
Media Access Control (MAC)
The packet received from the Network layer is further divided into frames depending on the frame size of the NIC(Network Interface Card). DLL also encapsulates 
Sender and Receiver’s MAC address in the header. 

The Receiver’s MAC address is obtained by placing an ARP(Address Resolution Protocol) request onto the wire asking “Who has that IP address?” and the destination
host will reply with its MAC address. 

Functions of the Data Link Layer
Framing: Framing is a function of the data link layer. It provides a way for a sender to transmit a set of bits that are meaningful to the receiver. This can be 
accomplished by attaching special bit patterns to the beginning and end of the frame.
Physical addressing: After creating frames, the Data link layer adds physical addresses (MAC addresses) of the sender and/or receiver in the header of each frame.
Error control: The data link layer provides the mechanism of error control in which it detects and retransmits damaged or lost frames.
Flow Control: The data rate must be constant on both sides else the data may get corrupted thus, flow control coordinates the amount of data that can be sent 
before receiving an acknowledgment.
Access control: When a single communication channel is shared by multiple devices, the MAC sub-layer of the data link layer helps to determine which device has 
control over the channel at a given time.


Network Layer - Layer 3
The network layer is responsible for receiving frames from the data link layer, and delivering them to their intended destinations among based on the addresses
contained inside the frame. The network layer finds the destination by using logical addresses, such as IP (internet protocol). At this layer, routers are a crucial
component used to quite literally route information where it needs to go between networks.

Functions of the Network Layer 
Routing: The network layer protocols determine which route is suitable from source to destination. This function of the network layer is known as routing.
Logical Addressing: To identify each device on Internetwork uniquely, the network layer defines an addressing scheme. The sender & receiver’s IP addresses 
are placed in the header by the network layer. Such an address distinguishes each device uniquely and universally.


Transport Layer – Layer 4
The transport layer manages the delivery and error checking of data packets. It regulates the size, sequencing, and ultimately the transfer of data between systems 
and hosts. One of the most common examples of the transport layer is TCP or the Transmission Control Protocol.

Functions of the Transport Layer 
Segmentation and Reassembly: This layer accepts the message from the (session) layer, and breaks the message into smaller units. Each of the segments produced has
a header associated with it. The transport layer at the destination station reassembles the message.
Service Point Addressing: To deliver the message to the correct process, the transport layer header includes a type of address called service point address or port
address. Thus by specifying this address, the transport layer makes sure that the message is delivered to the correct process.

Session Layer – Layer 5
The session layer controls the conversations between different computers. A session or connection between machines is set up, managed, and termined at layer 5. 
Session layer services also include authentication and reconnections.

Functions of the Session Layer
Session establishment, maintenance, and termination: The layer allows the two processes to establish, use and terminate a connection.
Synchronization: This layer allows a process to add checkpoints that are considered synchronization points in the data. These synchronization points help to
identify the error so that the data is re-synchronized properly, and ends of the messages are not cut prematurely and data loss is avoided.
Dialog Controller: The session layer allows two systems to start communication with each other in half-duplex or full-duplex.


Presentation Layer – Layer 6
The presentation layer formats or translates data for the application layer based on the syntax or semantics that the application accepts. Because of this, 
it at times also called the syntax layer. This layer can also handle the encryption and decryption required by the application layer.

Functions of the Presentation Layer
Translation: For example, ASCII to EBCDIC.
Encryption/ Decryption: Data encryption translates the data into another form or code. The encrypted data is known as the ciphertext and the decrypted data 
is known as plain text. A key value is used for encrypting as well as decrypting data.
Compression: Reduces the number of bits that need to be transmitted on the network.


Application Layer – Layer 7
At this layer, both the end user and the application layer interact directly with the software application. This layer sees network services provided to
end-user applications such as a web browser or Office 365. The application layer identifies communication partners, resource availability, and synchronizes communication.





